pages/documentation/model-processing.rst, before:

.. index:: pair: page; Introduction to Model Processing
.. _doxid-openvino_docs_model_processing_introduction:


Introduction to Model Processing
================================

:target:`doxid-openvino_docs_model_processing_introduction_1md_openvino_docs_documentation_model_introduction` Every deep learning workflow begins with obtaining a model. You can choose to prepare a custom one, use a ready-made solution and adjust it to your needs, or even download and run a pre-trained network from an online database, such as OpenVINO's :ref:`Open Model Zoo <doxid-model_zoo>`.

This section describes how to obtain and prepare your model for work with OpenVINO to get the best inference results:

* :ref:`Browse a database of models for use in your projects <doxid-model_zoo>`.

* :ref:`Convert different model formats to the OpenVINO IR format <doxid-openvino_docs__m_o__d_g__deep__learning__model__optimizer__dev_guide>`.

* `Automate model-related tasks with Model Downloader and additional OMZ Tools <https://docs.openvino.ai/latest/omz_tools_downloader.html>`__.

Commit message:

[STAGE2] Converting and Preparing Models (#173)
Updating ID of:
pages\documentation\model-processing.rst
From: doxid-openvino_docs_model_processing_introduction
To: conv_prep__model_processing_intro

pages/documentation/model-processing.rst, after:

.. index:: pair: page; Introduction to Model Processing
.. _conv_prep__model_processing_intro:

.. meta::
   :description: Pre-trained deep learning models can be downloaded, for 
                 example from Open Model Zoo, and then customized and prepared 
                 for work with OpenVINO Runtime.
   :keywords: OpenVINO, Open Model Zoo, OMZ, deep learning model, model 
              inference, pre-trained model, convert a model, OpenVINO IR, 
              Model Downloader, OMZ tools, inference results, download a 
              model, pre-trained network, OpenVINO Runtime

Introduction to Model Processing
================================

:target:`conv_prep__model_processing_intro_1md_openvino_docs_documentation_model_introduction` 

Every deep learning workflow begins with obtaining a model. You can choose to 
prepare a custom one, use a ready-made solution and adjust it to your needs, 
or even download and run a pre-trained network from an online database, such 
as OpenVINO's :ref:`Open Model Zoo <doxid-model_zoo>`.

This section describes how to obtain and prepare your model for work with 
OpenVINO to get the best inference results:

* :ref:`Browse a database of models for use in your projects <doxid-model_zoo>`.

* :ref:`Convert different model formats to the OpenVINO IR format <doxid-openvino_docs__m_o__d_g__deep__learning__model__optimizer__dev_guide>`.

* `Automate model-related tasks with Model Downloader and additional OMZ Tools <https://docs.openvino.ai/latest/omz_tools_downloader.html>`__.
