pages/documentation/openvino-runtime-user-guide/working-with-devices/inference-device-vpu/hddl-device.rst, before:

.. index:: pair: page; HDDL Device
.. _doxid-openvino_docs__o_v__u_g_supported_plugins__h_d_d_l:


HDDL Device
===========

:target:`doxid-openvino_docs__o_v__u_g_supported_plugins__h_d_d_l_1md_openvino_docs_ov_runtime_ug_supported_plugins_hddl`

Introducing the HDDL Plugin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The OpenVINO Runtime HDDL plugin was developed for inference with neural networks on Intel® Vision Accelerator Design with Intel® Movidius™ VPUs. It is designed for use cases that require large throughput for deep learning inference, up to dozens of times more than the MYRIAD Plugin.

Configuring the HDDL Plugin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To configure your Intel® Vision Accelerator Design With Intel® Movidius™ on supported operating systems, refer to the `installation guide <../../install_guides/installing-openvino-config-ivad-vpu>`__.

.. note::

   The HDDL and Myriad plugins may cause conflicts when used at the same time. 
   To ensure proper operation in such a case, the number of booted devices needs 
   to be limited in the 'hddl_autoboot.config' file. Otherwise, the HDDL plugin 
   will boot all available Intel® Movidius™ Myriad™ X devices.





Supported networks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To see the list of supported networks for the HDDL plugin, refer to the list on the :ref:`MYRIAD Plugin page <doxid-openvino_docs__o_v__u_g_supported_plugins__m_y_r_i_a_d>`.

Supported Configuration Parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For information on VPU common configuration parameters, see the :ref:`VPU Plugins <deploy_infer__vpu_device>`. When specifying key values as raw strings (when using the Python API), omit the ``KEY_`` prefix.

In addition to common parameters for both VPU plugins, the HDDL plugin accepts the following options:

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Parameter Name
      - Parameter Values
      - Default
      - Description
    * - ``KEY_PERF_COUNT``
      - ``YES`` / ``NO``
      - ``NO``
      - Enables performance counter option.
    * - ``KEY_VPU_HDDL_GRAPH_TAG``
      - string
      - empty string
      - Allows executing network on specified count of devices.
    * - ``KEY_VPU_HDDL_STREAM_ID``
      - string
      - empty string
      - Allows executing inference on a specified device.
    * - ``KEY_VPU_HDDL_DEVICE_TAG``
      - string
      - empty string
      - Allows allocating/deallocating networks on specified devices.
    * - ``KEY_VPU_HDDL_BIND_DEVICE``
      - ``YES`` / ``NO``
      - ``NO``
      - Enables the network to be bound to a device. Refer to the 'vpu_plugin_config.hpp' file.
    * - ``KEY_VPU_HDDL_RUNTIME_PRIORITY``
      - signed int
      - 0
      - Specifies the runtime priority of a device among all devices running the same network. Refer to the ``vpu_plugin_config.hpp`` file.

Additional Resources
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* :ref:`Supported Devices <doxid-openvino_docs__o_v__u_g_supported_plugins__supported__devices>`

* :ref:`VPU Plugins <deploy_infer__vpu_device>`

* :ref:`MYRIAD Plugin <doxid-openvino_docs__o_v__u_g_supported_plugins__m_y_r_i_a_d>`

Commit message:

[STAGE2] MYRIAD & HDDL (#127)
Updating:
pages/documentation/openvino-runtime-user-guide/working-with-devices/inference-device-vpu/myriad-device.rst
pages/documentation/openvino-runtime-user-guide/working-with-devices/inference-device-vpu/hddl-device.rst

pages/documentation/openvino-runtime-user-guide/working-with-devices/inference-device-vpu/hddl-device.rst, after:

.. index:: pair: page; HDDL Device
.. _deploy_infer__vpu_hddl_device:

.. meta::
   :description:  The HDDL plugin in OpenVINO™ has been developed for 
                 inference of neural networks on Intel® Vision Accelerator Design 
                 with Intel® Movidius™ VPUs. 
   :keywords: OpenVINO™, OpenVINO™ Runtime plugin, inference, deep learning 
              model, model inference, VPU plugin, HDDL plugin, HDDL device, 
              Intel® Vision Accelerator Design, Intel® Movidius™, Intel Movidius™ 
              Vision Processing Units, VPU configuration, KEY_VPU_HDDL_DEVICE_TAG, 
              VPU


HDDL Device
===========

:target:`deploy_infer__vpu_hddl_device_1md_openvino_docs_ov_runtime_ug_supported_plugins_hddl`

Introducing the HDDL Plugin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The OpenVINO Runtime HDDL plugin was developed for inference with neural networks on Intel® Vision Accelerator Design with Intel® Movidius™ VPUs. It is designed for use cases that require large throughput for deep learning inference, up to dozens of times more than the MYRIAD Plugin.

Configuring the HDDL Plugin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To configure your Intel® Vision Accelerator Design With Intel® Movidius™ on supported operating systems, refer to the `installation guide <../../install_guides/installing-openvino-config-ivad-vpu>`__.

.. note::

   The HDDL and Myriad plugins may cause conflicts when used at the same time. 
   To ensure proper operation in such a case, the number of booted devices needs 
   to be limited in the 'hddl_autoboot.config' file. Otherwise, the HDDL plugin 
   will boot all available Intel® Movidius™ Myriad™ X devices.





Supported networks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To see the list of supported networks for the HDDL plugin, refer to the list on the :ref:`MYRIAD Plugin page <deploy_infer__vpu_myriad_device>`.

Supported Configuration Parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For information on VPU common configuration parameters, see the :ref:`VPU Plugins <deploy_infer__vpu_device>`. When specifying key values as raw strings (when using the Python API), omit the ``KEY_`` prefix.

In addition to common parameters for both VPU plugins, the HDDL plugin accepts the following options:

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Parameter Name
      - Parameter Values
      - Default
      - Description
    * - ``KEY_PERF_COUNT``
      - ``YES`` / ``NO``
      - ``NO``
      - Enables performance counter option.
    * - ``KEY_VPU_HDDL_GRAPH_TAG``
      - string
      - empty string
      - Allows executing network on specified count of devices.
    * - ``KEY_VPU_HDDL_STREAM_ID``
      - string
      - empty string
      - Allows executing inference on a specified device.
    * - ``KEY_VPU_HDDL_DEVICE_TAG``
      - string
      - empty string
      - Allows allocating/deallocating networks on specified devices.
    * - ``KEY_VPU_HDDL_BIND_DEVICE``
      - ``YES`` / ``NO``
      - ``NO``
      - Enables the network to be bound to a device. Refer to the 'vpu_plugin_config.hpp' file.
    * - ``KEY_VPU_HDDL_RUNTIME_PRIORITY``
      - signed int
      - 0
      - Specifies the runtime priority of a device among all devices running the same network. Refer to the ``vpu_plugin_config.hpp`` file.

Additional Resources
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* :ref:`Supported Devices <doxid-openvino_docs__o_v__u_g_supported_plugins__supported__devices>`

* :ref:`VPU Plugins <deploy_infer__vpu_device>`

* :ref:`MYRIAD Plugin <deploy_infer__vpu_myriad_device>`
