pages/documentation/dl-workbench-overview/dl-workbench-install/run-dl-workbench-locally.rst, before:

.. index:: pair: page; Run the DL Workbench Locally
.. _doxid-workbench_docs__workbench__d_g__run__locally:


Run the DL Workbench Locally
============================

:target:`doxid-workbench_docs__workbench__d_g__run__locally_1md_openvino_workbench_docs_workbench_dg_run_workbench_locally`





.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :hidden:

   ./run-dl-workbench-locally/dl-workbench-cofigurations
   ./run-dl-workbench-locally/dl-workbench-docker

This section contains instructions on how to run DL Workbench. Select your options and run the commands on your local machine. Ensure that you have met the :ref:`prerequisites <doxid-workbench_docs__workbench__d_g__prerequisites>`.

.. raw:: html

   <iframe style="width: 100%; height: 920px;" src="https://openvinotoolkit.github.io/workbench_aux/"  frameborder="0" allow="clipboard-write;"></iframe>

Wait for the DL Workbench to set up for about a minute. Once it is done, open the `http://127.0.0.1:5665 <http://127.0.0.1:5665>`__ link.

.. image:: ./_assets/start_page_crop.png

Video
~~~~~

.. list-table::

   * - .. raw:: html

           <iframe allowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen msallowfullscreen oallowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen width="220"
           src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/K2zWPq2Oxzw">
           </iframe>

     - .. raw:: html

           <iframe allowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen msallowfullscreen oallowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen width="220"
           src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/PWDyoOIaFLM">
           </iframe>

     - .. raw:: html

           <iframe allowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen msallowfullscreen oallowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen width="220"
           src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/yQTh-0gobcM">
           </iframe>

   * - **Run DL Workbench on Linux**
     - **Run DL Workbench on MacOS**
     - **Run DL Workbench on Windows**

Congratulations, you have installed the DL Workbench. Learn how to :ref:`Get Started <dl_workbench__get_started>` with DL Workbench and create your first project.

See Also
~~~~~~~~

* :ref:`Next Step: Get Started <dl_workbench__get_started>`

* :ref:`Advanced DL Workbench Configurations <doxid-workbench_docs__workbench__d_g__advanced__configurations>`

* :ref:`Troubleshooting <dl_workbench__troubleshooting>`

Commit message:

[STAGE2] Deep Learning Workbench Installation (#174)
dl-workbench-install

pages/documentation/dl-workbench-overview/dl-workbench-install/run-dl-workbench-locally.rst, after:

.. index:: pair: page; Run the DL Workbench Locally
.. _workbench_install__run_locally:

.. meta::
   :description: Information on how to run OpenVINO Deep Learning Workbench locally.
   :keywords: OpenVINO, Deep Learning Workbench, DL workbench, run dl workbench locally, 
              run deep learning workbench locally


Run the DL Workbench Locally
============================

:target:`workbench_install__run_locally_1md_openvino_workbench_docs_workbench_dg_run_workbench_locally`



.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :hidden:

   ./run-dl-workbench-locally/dl-workbench-cofigurations
   ./run-dl-workbench-locally/dl-workbench-docker

This section contains instructions on how to run DL Workbench. Select your options and run the commands on your local 
machine. Ensure that you have met the :ref:`prerequisites <workbench_install__prerequisites>`.

.. raw:: html

   <iframe style="width: 100%; height: 920px;" src="https://openvinotoolkit.github.io/workbench_aux/"  frameborder="0" allow="clipboard-write;"></iframe>

Wait for the DL Workbench to set up for about a minute. Once it is done, open the 
`http://127.0.0.1:5665 <http://127.0.0.1:5665>`__ link.

.. image:: ./_assets/start_page_crop.png

Video
~~~~~

.. list-table::

   * - .. raw:: html

           <iframe allowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen msallowfullscreen oallowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen width="220"
           src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/K2zWPq2Oxzw">
           </iframe>

     - .. raw:: html

           <iframe allowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen msallowfullscreen oallowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen width="220"
           src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/PWDyoOIaFLM">
           </iframe>

     - .. raw:: html

           <iframe allowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen msallowfullscreen oallowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen width="220"
           src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/yQTh-0gobcM">
           </iframe>

   * - **Run DL Workbench on Linux**
     - **Run DL Workbench on MacOS**
     - **Run DL Workbench on Windows**

Congratulations, you have installed the DL Workbench. Learn how to :ref:`Get Started <dl_workbench__get_started>` 
with DL Workbench and create your first project.

See Also
~~~~~~~~

* :ref:`Next Step: Get Started <dl_workbench__get_started>`

* :ref:`Advanced DL Workbench Configurations <workbench_run__advanced_configurations>`

* :ref:`Troubleshooting <dl_workbench__troubleshooting>`
