pages/documentation/api-2.0-transition/api-2.0-configure-devices.rst, before:

.. index:: pair: page; Configuring Devices
.. _doxid-openvino_2_0_configure_devices:


Configuring Devices
===================

:target:`doxid-openvino_2_0_configure_devices_1md_openvino_docs_ov_runtime_ug_migration_ov_2_0_configure_devices` Inference Engine API provides the `ability to configure devices <https://docs.openvino.ai/2021.4/openvino_docs_IE_DG_InferenceEngine_QueryAPI.html>`__ via configuration keys and `get device specific metrics <https://docs.openvino.ai/2021.4/openvino_docs_IE_DG_InferenceEngine_QueryAPI.html#getmetric>`__. The values taken from ``:ref:`InferenceEngine::Core::GetConfig <doxid-class_inference_engine_1_1_core_1a415077386694f95b57e4cccb0d334a55>``` are requested by the string name, while the return type is ``:ref:`InferenceEngine::Parameter <doxid-namespace_inference_engine_1aff2231f886c9f8fc9c226fd343026789>```, making users lost on what the actual type is stored in this parameter.

API 2.0 solves these issues by introducing :ref:`properties <deploy_infer__query_device_properties>`, which unify metrics and configuration key concepts. The main advantage is that they have the C++ type:

.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	static constexpr Property<std::string> full_name{"FULL_DEVICE_NAME"};

where the property can be requested from an inference device as:

.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	// 'auto' is automatically deduced as std::string
	// since the type is stored in the property
	auto full_device_name = core.get_property("CPU", :ref:`ov::device::full_name <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1gaabacd9ea113b966be7b53b1d70fd6f42>`);

The snippets in the following sections demostrate the device configurations for migrating from Inference Engine to API 2.0.

Setting Configuration Values
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Inference Engine API**

.. raw:: html

   <div class='sphinxtabset'>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="C++">







.. raw:: html

   <div class='sphinxtabset'>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Devices">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	core.SetConfig({ { :ref:`CONFIG_KEY <doxid-ie__plugin__config_8hpp_1aad09cfba062e8ec9fb7ab9383f656ec7>`(PERF_COUNT), :ref:`CONFIG_VALUE <doxid-ie__plugin__config_8hpp_1a2b1801501dc6436ffa1a9ed9c6333b40>`(:ref:`YES <doxid-namespace_inference_engine_1_1_plugin_config_params_1a42d48631fa3332ded8c776513e897bf3>`) } }, "CPU");

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Model Loading">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	auto exec_network = core.LoadNetwork(:ref:`model <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1ga461856fdfb6d7533dc53355aec9e9fad>`, "MULTI", {
	    { :ref:`MULTI_CONFIG_KEY <doxid-multi__device__config_8hpp_1aa887cd604b772a3a51ba73f9652ae6c4>`(DEVICE_PRIORITIES), "CPU, GPU" },
	    { :ref:`CONFIG_KEY <doxid-ie__plugin__config_8hpp_1aad09cfba062e8ec9fb7ab9383f656ec7>`(PERFORMANCE_HINT), :ref:`CONFIG_VALUE <doxid-ie__plugin__config_8hpp_1a2b1801501dc6436ffa1a9ed9c6333b40>`(:ref:`THROUGHPUT <doxid-namespace_inference_engine_1_1_plugin_config_params_1a0902fd7a7ca168b6a188daf4b75db92f>`) },
	    { :ref:`CONFIG_KEY <doxid-ie__plugin__config_8hpp_1aad09cfba062e8ec9fb7ab9383f656ec7>`(ENFORCE_BF16), :ref:`CONFIG_VALUE <doxid-ie__plugin__config_8hpp_1a2b1801501dc6436ffa1a9ed9c6333b40>`(:ref:`NO <doxid-namespace_inference_engine_1_1_plugin_config_params_1a3ceab5fe6f519a82b92c7a3794561c5f>`) } });

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Execution">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	// turn CPU off for multi-device execution
	exec_network.SetConfig({ { :ref:`MULTI_CONFIG_KEY <doxid-multi__device__config_8hpp_1aa887cd604b772a3a51ba73f9652ae6c4>`(DEVICE_PRIORITIES), "GPU" } });

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Python">







.. raw:: html

   <div class='sphinxtabset'>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Devices">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	core.set_config({"PERF_COUNT": "YES"}, "CPU")

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Model Loading">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	exec_network = core.load_network(net, "MULTI", {"DEVICE_PRIORITIES": "CPU, GPU",
	                                                "PERFORMANCE_HINT": "THROUGHPUT",
	                                                "ENFORCE_BF16": "NO"})

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Execution">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	# turn CPU off for multi-device execution
	exec_network.set_config({"DEVICE_PRIORITIES": "GPU"})

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>



**API 2.0**

.. raw:: html

   <div class='sphinxtabset'>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="C++">







.. raw:: html

   <div class='sphinxtabset'>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Devices">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	core.set_property("CPU", :ref:`ov::enable_profiling <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1gafc5bef2fc2b5cfb5a0709cfb04346438>`(true));

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Model Loading">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	auto compiled_model = core.compile_model(:ref:`model <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1ga461856fdfb6d7533dc53355aec9e9fad>`, "MULTI",
	    :ref:`ov::device::priorities <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1gae88af90a18871677f39739cb0ef0101e>`("GPU", "CPU"),
	    :ref:`ov::hint::performance_mode <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1ga2691fe27acc8aa1d1700ad40b6da3ba2>`(:ref:`ov::hint::PerformanceMode::THROUGHPUT <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1gga032aa530efa40760b79af14913d48d73a50f9b1f40c078d242af7ec323ace44b3>`),
	    :ref:`ov::hint::inference_precision <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1gad605a888f3c9b7598ab55023fbf44240>`(:ref:`ov::element::f32 <doxid-group__ov__element__cpp__api_1gadc8a5dda3244028a5c0b024897215d43>`));

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Execution">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	// turn CPU off for multi-device execution
	compiled_model.set_property(:ref:`ov::device::priorities <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1gae88af90a18871677f39739cb0ef0101e>`("GPU"));

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Python">







.. raw:: html

   <div class='sphinxtabset'>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Devices">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	core.set_property(device_name="CPU", properties={"PERF_COUNT": "YES"})

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Model Loading">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	compiled_model = core.compile_model(model=model, device_name="MULTI", config=
	    {
	        "MULTI_DEVICE_PRIORITIES": "GPU,CPU",
	        "PERFORMANCE_HINT": "THROUGHPUT",
	        "INFERENCE_PRECISION_HINT": "f32"
	    })

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Execution">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	# turn CPU off for multi-device execution
	compiled_model.set_property(properties={"MULTI_DEVICE_PRIORITIES": "GPU"})

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>





Getting Information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Inference Engine API**

.. raw:: html

   <div class='sphinxtabset'>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="C++">







.. raw:: html

   <div class='sphinxtabset'>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Device Configuration">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	// a user has to parse std::string after
	auto :ref:`num_streams <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1ga6c63a0223565f650475450fdb466bc0c>` = core.GetConfig("CPU", :ref:`CONFIG_KEY <doxid-ie__plugin__config_8hpp_1aad09cfba062e8ec9fb7ab9383f656ec7>`(CPU_THROUGHPUT_STREAMS)).as<std::string>();

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Device metrics">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	auto full_device_name = core.GetMetric("CPU", :ref:`METRIC_KEY <doxid-ie__plugin__config_8hpp_1a69d0efa20c5b2bec020a706279f0c7be>`(FULL_DEVICE_NAME)).as<std::string>();

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Execution config">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	std::string perf_model = exec_network.GetConfig(:ref:`CONFIG_KEY <doxid-ie__plugin__config_8hpp_1aad09cfba062e8ec9fb7ab9383f656ec7>`(PERFORMANCE_HINT)).as<std::string>();

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Execution metrics">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	auto nireq = exec_network.GetMetric(:ref:`EXEC_NETWORK_METRIC_KEY <doxid-ie__plugin__config_8hpp_1adb48efa632ae9bacfa86b8a3a0d9541e>`(OPTIMAL_NUMBER_OF_INFER_REQUESTS)).as<uint32_t>();

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Python">







.. raw:: html

   <div class='sphinxtabset'>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Device Configuration">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	num_streams = core.get_config("CPU", "CPU_THROUGHPUT_STREAMS")

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Device metrics">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	full_device_name = core.get_metric("CPU", "FULL_DEVICE_NAME")

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Execution config">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	perf_hint = exec_network.get_config("PERFORMANCE_HINT")

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Execution metrics">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	nireq = exec_network.get_metric("OPTIMAL_NUMBER_OF_INFER_REQUESTS")

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>



**API 2.0**

.. raw:: html

   <div class='sphinxtabset'>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="C++">







.. raw:: html

   <div class='sphinxtabset'>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Device Configuration">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	// 'auto' is automatically deduced as ov::streams::Num
	// since the type is stored in the property
	auto :ref:`num_streams <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1ga6c63a0223565f650475450fdb466bc0c>` = core.get_property("CPU", :ref:`ov::streams::num <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1gaeeef815df8212c810bfa11a3f0bd8300>`);

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Device metrics">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	// 'auto' is automatically deduced as std::string
	// since the type is stored in the property
	auto full_device_name = core.get_property("CPU", :ref:`ov::device::full_name <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1gaabacd9ea113b966be7b53b1d70fd6f42>`);

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Execution config">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	:ref:`ov::hint::PerformanceMode <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1ga032aa530efa40760b79af14913d48d73>` perf_mode = compiled_model.get_property(:ref:`ov::hint::performance_mode <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1ga2691fe27acc8aa1d1700ad40b6da3ba2>`);

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Execution metrics">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	// 'auto' is deduced to 'uint32_t'
	auto nireq = compiled_model.get_property(:ref:`ov::optimal_number_of_infer_requests <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1ga087c6da667f7c3d8374aec5f6cbba027>`);

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Python">







.. raw:: html

   <div class='sphinxtabset'>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Device Configuration">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	num_streams = core.get_property("CPU", "NUM_STREAMS")

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Device metrics">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	full_device_name = core.get_property("CPU", "FULL_DEVICE_NAME")

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Execution config">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	perf_mode = compiled_model.get_property("PERFORMANCE_HINT")

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Execution metrics">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	nireq = compiled_model.get_property("OPTIMAL_NUMBER_OF_INFER_REQUESTS")

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>

Commit message:

[STAGE2] API 2.0 - Configure Devices (#165)
Updating ID of
pages\documentation\api-2.0-transition\api-2.0-configure-devices.rst
From: doxid-openvino_2_0_configure_devices
To: api_2_0__config_devices

pages/documentation/api-2.0-transition/api-2.0-configure-devices.rst, after:

.. index:: pair: page; Configuring Devices
.. _api_2_0__config_devices:

.. meta::
   :description: Openvino Runtime API 2.0 has introduced properties that unify 
                 metrics and configuration key concepts, which simplifies the 
                 configuration of inference devices.
   :keywords: Openvino Runtime, Openvino Runtime API 2.0, API 2.0, inference, 
              model inference, inference device, configure inference device, 
              device configuration, inference device configuration, properties, 
              migrate to API 2.0, configuration values, set configuration values, 
              Inference Engine API, device metrics, execution configuration, 
              execution metrics, set_property, get_metric, get_config, get_metric, 
              GetMetric, GetConfig, GetMetric, GetConfig, Intel CPU, Intel GPU, 
              MULTI-device, performance hint, inference precision, throughput

Configuring Devices
===================

:target:`api_2_0__config_devices_1md_openvino_docs_ov_runtime_ug_migration_ov_2_0_configure_devices` 

Inference Engine API provides the `ability to configure devices <https://docs.openvino.ai/2021.4/openvino_docs_IE_DG_InferenceEngine_QueryAPI.html>`__ via configuration keys and `get device specific metrics <https://docs.openvino.ai/2021.4/openvino_docs_IE_DG_InferenceEngine_QueryAPI.html#getmetric>`__. The values taken from ``:ref:`InferenceEngine::Core::GetConfig <doxid-class_inference_engine_1_1_core_1a415077386694f95b57e4cccb0d334a55>``` are requested by the string name, while the return type is ``:ref:`InferenceEngine::Parameter <doxid-namespace_inference_engine_1aff2231f886c9f8fc9c226fd343026789>```, making users lost on what the actual type is stored in this parameter.

API 2.0 solves these issues by introducing :ref:`properties <deploy_infer__query_device_properties>`, which unify metrics and configuration key concepts. The main advantage is that they have the C++ type:

.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	static constexpr Property<std::string> full_name{"FULL_DEVICE_NAME"};

where the property can be requested from an inference device as:

.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	// 'auto' is automatically deduced as std::string
	// since the type is stored in the property
	auto full_device_name = core.get_property("CPU", :ref:`ov::device::full_name <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1gaabacd9ea113b966be7b53b1d70fd6f42>`);

The snippets in the following sections demonstrate the device configurations for migrating from Inference Engine to API 2.0.

Setting Configuration Values
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Inference Engine API**

.. raw:: html

   <div class='sphinxtabset'>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="C++">







.. raw:: html

   <div class='sphinxtabset'>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Devices">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	core.SetConfig({ { :ref:`CONFIG_KEY <doxid-ie__plugin__config_8hpp_1aad09cfba062e8ec9fb7ab9383f656ec7>`(PERF_COUNT), :ref:`CONFIG_VALUE <doxid-ie__plugin__config_8hpp_1a2b1801501dc6436ffa1a9ed9c6333b40>`(:ref:`YES <doxid-namespace_inference_engine_1_1_plugin_config_params_1a42d48631fa3332ded8c776513e897bf3>`) } }, "CPU");

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Model Loading">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	auto exec_network = core.LoadNetwork(:ref:`model <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1ga461856fdfb6d7533dc53355aec9e9fad>`, "MULTI", {
	    { :ref:`MULTI_CONFIG_KEY <doxid-multi__device__config_8hpp_1aa887cd604b772a3a51ba73f9652ae6c4>`(DEVICE_PRIORITIES), "CPU, GPU" },
	    { :ref:`CONFIG_KEY <doxid-ie__plugin__config_8hpp_1aad09cfba062e8ec9fb7ab9383f656ec7>`(PERFORMANCE_HINT), :ref:`CONFIG_VALUE <doxid-ie__plugin__config_8hpp_1a2b1801501dc6436ffa1a9ed9c6333b40>`(:ref:`THROUGHPUT <doxid-namespace_inference_engine_1_1_plugin_config_params_1a0902fd7a7ca168b6a188daf4b75db92f>`) },
	    { :ref:`CONFIG_KEY <doxid-ie__plugin__config_8hpp_1aad09cfba062e8ec9fb7ab9383f656ec7>`(ENFORCE_BF16), :ref:`CONFIG_VALUE <doxid-ie__plugin__config_8hpp_1a2b1801501dc6436ffa1a9ed9c6333b40>`(:ref:`NO <doxid-namespace_inference_engine_1_1_plugin_config_params_1a3ceab5fe6f519a82b92c7a3794561c5f>`) } });

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Execution">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	// turn CPU off for multi-device execution
	exec_network.SetConfig({ { :ref:`MULTI_CONFIG_KEY <doxid-multi__device__config_8hpp_1aa887cd604b772a3a51ba73f9652ae6c4>`(DEVICE_PRIORITIES), "GPU" } });

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Python">







.. raw:: html

   <div class='sphinxtabset'>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Devices">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	core.set_config({"PERF_COUNT": "YES"}, "CPU")

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Model Loading">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	exec_network = core.load_network(net, "MULTI", {"DEVICE_PRIORITIES": "CPU, GPU",
	                                                "PERFORMANCE_HINT": "THROUGHPUT",
	                                                "ENFORCE_BF16": "NO"})

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Execution">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	# turn CPU off for multi-device execution
	exec_network.set_config({"DEVICE_PRIORITIES": "GPU"})

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>



**API 2.0**

.. raw:: html

   <div class='sphinxtabset'>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="C++">







.. raw:: html

   <div class='sphinxtabset'>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Devices">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	core.set_property("CPU", :ref:`ov::enable_profiling <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1gafc5bef2fc2b5cfb5a0709cfb04346438>`(true));

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Model Loading">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	auto compiled_model = core.compile_model(:ref:`model <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1ga461856fdfb6d7533dc53355aec9e9fad>`, "MULTI",
	    :ref:`ov::device::priorities <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1gae88af90a18871677f39739cb0ef0101e>`("GPU", "CPU"),
	    :ref:`ov::hint::performance_mode <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1ga2691fe27acc8aa1d1700ad40b6da3ba2>`(:ref:`ov::hint::PerformanceMode::THROUGHPUT <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1gga032aa530efa40760b79af14913d48d73a50f9b1f40c078d242af7ec323ace44b3>`),
	    :ref:`ov::hint::inference_precision <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1gad605a888f3c9b7598ab55023fbf44240>`(:ref:`ov::element::f32 <doxid-group__ov__element__cpp__api_1gadc8a5dda3244028a5c0b024897215d43>`));

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Execution">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	// turn CPU off for multi-device execution
	compiled_model.set_property(:ref:`ov::device::priorities <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1gae88af90a18871677f39739cb0ef0101e>`("GPU"));

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Python">







.. raw:: html

   <div class='sphinxtabset'>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Devices">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	core.set_property(device_name="CPU", properties={"PERF_COUNT": "YES"})

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Model Loading">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	compiled_model = core.compile_model(model=model, device_name="MULTI", config=
	    {
	        "MULTI_DEVICE_PRIORITIES": "GPU,CPU",
	        "PERFORMANCE_HINT": "THROUGHPUT",
	        "INFERENCE_PRECISION_HINT": "f32"
	    })

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Execution">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	# turn CPU off for multi-device execution
	compiled_model.set_property(properties={"MULTI_DEVICE_PRIORITIES": "GPU"})

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>





Getting Information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Inference Engine API**

.. raw:: html

   <div class='sphinxtabset'>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="C++">







.. raw:: html

   <div class='sphinxtabset'>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Device Configuration">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	// a user has to parse std::string after
	auto :ref:`num_streams <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1ga6c63a0223565f650475450fdb466bc0c>` = core.GetConfig("CPU", :ref:`CONFIG_KEY <doxid-ie__plugin__config_8hpp_1aad09cfba062e8ec9fb7ab9383f656ec7>`(CPU_THROUGHPUT_STREAMS)).as<std::string>();

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Device metrics">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	auto full_device_name = core.GetMetric("CPU", :ref:`METRIC_KEY <doxid-ie__plugin__config_8hpp_1a69d0efa20c5b2bec020a706279f0c7be>`(FULL_DEVICE_NAME)).as<std::string>();

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Execution config">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	std::string perf_model = exec_network.GetConfig(:ref:`CONFIG_KEY <doxid-ie__plugin__config_8hpp_1aad09cfba062e8ec9fb7ab9383f656ec7>`(PERFORMANCE_HINT)).as<std::string>();

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Execution metrics">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	auto nireq = exec_network.GetMetric(:ref:`EXEC_NETWORK_METRIC_KEY <doxid-ie__plugin__config_8hpp_1adb48efa632ae9bacfa86b8a3a0d9541e>`(OPTIMAL_NUMBER_OF_INFER_REQUESTS)).as<uint32_t>();

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Python">







.. raw:: html

   <div class='sphinxtabset'>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Device Configuration">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	num_streams = core.get_config("CPU", "CPU_THROUGHPUT_STREAMS")

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Device metrics">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	full_device_name = core.get_metric("CPU", "FULL_DEVICE_NAME")

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Execution config">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	perf_hint = exec_network.get_config("PERFORMANCE_HINT")

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Execution metrics">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	nireq = exec_network.get_metric("OPTIMAL_NUMBER_OF_INFER_REQUESTS")

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>



**API 2.0**

.. raw:: html

   <div class='sphinxtabset'>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="C++">







.. raw:: html

   <div class='sphinxtabset'>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Device Configuration">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	// 'auto' is automatically deduced as ov::streams::Num
	// since the type is stored in the property
	auto :ref:`num_streams <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1ga6c63a0223565f650475450fdb466bc0c>` = core.get_property("CPU", :ref:`ov::streams::num <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1gaeeef815df8212c810bfa11a3f0bd8300>`);

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Device metrics">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	// 'auto' is automatically deduced as std::string
	// since the type is stored in the property
	auto full_device_name = core.get_property("CPU", :ref:`ov::device::full_name <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1gaabacd9ea113b966be7b53b1d70fd6f42>`);

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Execution config">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	:ref:`ov::hint::PerformanceMode <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1ga032aa530efa40760b79af14913d48d73>` perf_mode = compiled_model.get_property(:ref:`ov::hint::performance_mode <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1ga2691fe27acc8aa1d1700ad40b6da3ba2>`);

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Execution metrics">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	// 'auto' is deduced to 'uint32_t'
	auto nireq = compiled_model.get_property(:ref:`ov::optimal_number_of_infer_requests <doxid-group__ov__runtime__cpp__prop__api_1ga087c6da667f7c3d8374aec5f6cbba027>`);

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Python">







.. raw:: html

   <div class='sphinxtabset'>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Device Configuration">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	num_streams = core.get_property("CPU", "NUM_STREAMS")

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Device metrics">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	full_device_name = core.get_property("CPU", "FULL_DEVICE_NAME")

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Execution config">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	perf_mode = compiled_model.get_property("PERFORMANCE_HINT")

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   <div class="sphinxtab" data-sphinxtab-value="Execution metrics">





.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	nireq = compiled_model.get_property("OPTIMAL_NUMBER_OF_INFER_REQUESTS")

.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>







.. raw:: html

   </div>
