pages/openvino_docs_MO_DG_prepare_model_convert_model_tf_specific_Convert_AttentionOCR_From_Tensorflow.rst, before:

.. index:: pair: page; Convert TensorFlow Attention OCR Model
.. _doxid-openvino_docs__m_o__d_g_prepare_model_convert_model_tf_specific__convert__attention_o_c_r__from__tensorflow:


Convert TensorFlow Attention OCR Model
======================================

:target:`doxid-openvino_docs__m_o__d_g_prepare_model_convert_model_tf_specific__convert__attention_o_c_r__from__tensorflow_1md_openvino_docs_mo_dg_prepare_model_convert_model_tf_specific_convert_attentionocr_from_tensorflow` This tutorial explains how to convert the Attention OCR (AOCR) model from the `TensorFlow\* Attention OCR repository <https://github.com/emedvedev/attention-ocr>`__ to the Intermediate Representation (IR).

Extract Model from  Library
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The easiest way to get an AOCR model is to download ``aocr`` Python\* library:

.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	pip install git+https://github.com/emedvedev/attention-ocr.git@master#egg=aocr

This library contains a pretrained model and allows to train and run AOCR using the command line. After installing ``aocr``, you can extract the model:

.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	aocr export --format=frozengraph model/path/

After this step you can find the model in model/path/ folder.

Convert the TensorFlow\* AOCR Model to IR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The original AOCR model contains data preprocessing which consists of the following steps:

* Decoding input data to binary format where input data is an image represented as a string.

* Resizing binary image to working resolution.

After that, the resized image is sent to the convolution neural network (CNN). The Model Optimizer does not support image decoding so you should cut of preprocessing part of the model using ' input' command line parameter.

.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	mo \
	--input_model=model/path/frozen_graph.pb \
	--input="map/TensorArrayStack/TensorArrayGatherV3:0[1 32 86 1]" \
	--output "transpose_1,transpose_2" \
	--output_dir path/to/ir/

Where:

* ``map/TensorArrayStack/TensorArrayGatherV3:0[1 32 86 1]`` - name of node producing tensor after preprocessing.

* ``transpose_1`` - name of the node producing tensor with predicted characters.

* ``transpose_2`` - name of the node producing tensor with predicted characters probabilties

Commit message:

Major update since last snapshot.
Includes Python script for grabbing content from openvino repo and placing in pages directory:

get_latest_rst_pages.py

Signed-off-by: Kevin Putnam <kevin.putnam@intel.com>

pages/openvino_docs_MO_DG_prepare_model_convert_model_tf_specific_Convert_AttentionOCR_From_Tensorflow.rst, after:

.. index:: pair: page; Converting a TensorFlow Attention OCR Model
.. _doxid-openvino_docs__m_o__d_g_prepare_model_convert_model_tf_specific__convert__attention_o_c_r__from__tensorflow:


Converting a TensorFlow Attention OCR Model
===========================================

:target:`doxid-openvino_docs__m_o__d_g_prepare_model_convert_model_tf_specific__convert__attention_o_c_r__from__tensorflow_1md_openvino_docs_mo_dg_prepare_model_convert_model_tf_specific_convert_attentionocr_from_tensorflow` This tutorial explains how to convert the Attention OCR (AOCR) model from the `TensorFlow Attention OCR repository <https://github.com/emedvedev/attention-ocr>`__ to the Intermediate Representation (IR).

Extracting a Model from  Library
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To get an AOCR model, download ``aocr`` Python library:

.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	pip install git+https://github.com/emedvedev/attention-ocr.git@master#egg=aocr

This library contains a pretrained model and allows training and running AOCR, using the command line. After installation of ``aocr``, extract the model:

.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	aocr export --format=frozengraph model/path/

Once extracted, the model can be found in ``model/path/`` folder.

Converting the TensorFlow AOCR Model to IR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The original AOCR model includes the preprocessing data, which contains:

* Decoding input data to binary format where input data is an image represented as a string.

* Resizing binary image to working resolution.

The resized image is sent to the convolution neural network (CNN). Because Model Optimizer does not support image decoding, the preprocessing part of the model should be cut off, using the ``--input`` command-line parameter.

.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	mo \
	--input_model=model/path/frozen_graph.pb \
	--input="map/TensorArrayStack/TensorArrayGatherV3:0[1 32 86 1]" \
	--output "transpose_1,transpose_2" \
	--output_dir path/to/ir/

Where:

* ``map/TensorArrayStack/TensorArrayGatherV3:0[1 32 86 1]`` - name of node producing tensor after preprocessing.

* ``transpose_1`` - name of the node producing tensor with predicted characters.

* ``transpose_2`` - name of the node producing tensor with predicted characters probabilities.
