pages/openvino_docs_MO_DG_prepare_model_convert_model_pytorch_specific_Convert_Bert_ner.rst, before:

.. index:: pair: page; Convert PyTorch\* BERT-NER Model
.. _doxid-openvino_docs__m_o__d_g_prepare_model_convert_model_pytorch_specific__convert__bert_ner:


Convert PyTorch\* BERT-NER Model
================================

:target:`doxid-openvino_docs__m_o__d_g_prepare_model_convert_model_pytorch_specific__convert__bert_ner_1md_openvino_docs_mo_dg_prepare_model_convert_model_pytorch_specific_convert_bert_ner`

Download and Convert the Model to ONNX\*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To download a pre-trained model or train the model yourself, refer to the `instruction <https://github.com/kamalkraj/BERT-NER/blob/dev/README.md>`__ in the BERT-NER model repository. The model with config files is stored in the ``out_base`` directory.

To convert the model to ONNX\* format, create and run the script with the following content in the root directory of the model repository. If you download the pre-trained model, you need to download ` <https://github.com/kamalkraj/BERT-NER/blob/dev/bert.py>`__ to run the script. The instruction was tested with the repository hash commit ``e5be564156f194f1becb0d82aeaf6e762d9eb9ed``.

.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	import torch
	
	from bert import Ner
	
	ner = Ner("out_base")
	
	input_ids, input_mask, segment_ids, valid_positions = ner.preprocess('Steve went to Paris')
	input_ids = torch.tensor([input_ids], dtype=torch.long, device=ner.device)
	input_mask = torch.tensor([input_mask], dtype=torch.long, device=ner.device)
	segment_ids = torch.tensor([segment_ids], dtype=torch.long, device=ner.device)
	valid_ids = torch.tensor([valid_positions], dtype=torch.long, device=ner.device)
	
	ner_model, tknizr, model_config = ner.load_model("out_base")
	
	with torch.no_grad():
	    logits = ner_model(input_ids, segment_ids, input_mask, valid_ids)
	torch.onnx.export(ner_model,
	                  (input_ids, segment_ids, input_mask, valid_ids),
	                  "bert-ner.onnx",
	                  input_names=['input_ids', 'segment_ids', 'input_mask', 'valid_ids'],
	                  output_names=['output'],
	                  dynamic_axes={
	                      "input_ids": {0: "batch_size"},
	                      "segment_ids": {0: "batch_size"},
	                      "input_mask": {0: "batch_size"},
	                      "valid_ids": {0: "batch_size"},
	                      "output": {0: "output"}
	                  },
	                  opset_version=11,
	                  )

The script generates ONNX\* model file ``bert-ner.onnx``.

Convert ONNX\* BERT-NER model to IR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	mo --input_model bert-ner.onnx --input "input_mask[1 128],segment_ids[1 128],input_ids[1 128]"

where ``1`` is ``batch_size`` and ``128`` is ``sequence_length``.

Commit message:

Major update since last snapshot.
Includes Python script for grabbing content from openvino repo and placing in pages directory:

get_latest_rst_pages.py

Signed-off-by: Kevin Putnam <kevin.putnam@intel.com>

pages/openvino_docs_MO_DG_prepare_model_convert_model_pytorch_specific_Convert_Bert_ner.rst, after:

.. index:: pair: page; Converting a PyTorch BERT-NER Model
.. _doxid-openvino_docs__m_o__d_g_prepare_model_convert_model_pytorch_specific__convert__bert_ner:


Converting a PyTorch BERT-NER Model
===================================

:target:`doxid-openvino_docs__m_o__d_g_prepare_model_convert_model_pytorch_specific__convert__bert_ner_1md_openvino_docs_mo_dg_prepare_model_convert_model_pytorch_specific_convert_bert_ner` The goal of this article is to present a step-by-step guide on how to convert PyTorch BERT-NER model to OpenVINO IR. First, you need to download the model and convert it to ONNX.

Downloading and Converting the Model to ONNX
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To download a pretrained model or train the model yourself, refer to the `instructions <https://github.com/kamalkraj/BERT-NER/blob/dev/README.md>`__ in the BERT-NER model repository. The model with configuration files is stored in the ``out_base`` directory.

To convert the model to ONNX format, create and run the following script in the root directory of the model repository. If you download the pretrained model, you need to download ` <https://github.com/kamalkraj/BERT-NER/blob/dev/bert.py>`__ to run the script. The instructions were tested with the commit-SHA: ``e5be564156f194f1becb0d82aeaf6e762d9eb9ed``.

.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	import torch
	
	from bert import Ner
	
	ner = Ner("out_base")
	
	input_ids, input_mask, segment_ids, valid_positions = ner.preprocess('Steve went to Paris')
	input_ids = torch.tensor([input_ids], dtype=torch.long, device=ner.device)
	input_mask = torch.tensor([input_mask], dtype=torch.long, device=ner.device)
	segment_ids = torch.tensor([segment_ids], dtype=torch.long, device=ner.device)
	valid_ids = torch.tensor([valid_positions], dtype=torch.long, device=ner.device)
	
	ner_model, tknizr, model_config = ner.load_model("out_base")
	
	with torch.no_grad():
	    logits = ner_model(input_ids, segment_ids, input_mask, valid_ids)
	torch.onnx.export(ner_model,
	                  (input_ids, segment_ids, input_mask, valid_ids),
	                  "bert-ner.onnx",
	                  input_names=['input_ids', 'segment_ids', 'input_mask', 'valid_ids'],
	                  output_names=['output'],
	                  dynamic_axes={
	                      "input_ids": {0: "batch_size"},
	                      "segment_ids": {0: "batch_size"},
	                      "input_mask": {0: "batch_size"},
	                      "valid_ids": {0: "batch_size"},
	                      "output": {0: "output"}
	                  },
	                  opset_version=11,
	                  )

The script generates ONNX model file ``bert-ner.onnx``.

Converting an ONNX BERT-NER model to IR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. ref-code-block:: cpp

	mo --input_model bert-ner.onnx --input "input_mask[1 128],segment_ids[1 128],input_ids[1 128]"

where ``1`` is ``batch_size`` and ``128`` is ``sequence_length``.
