pages/documentation/dl-workbench-overview/dl-workbench-get-started.rst, before:

.. index:: pair: page; Get Started
.. _doxid-workbench_docs__workbench__d_g__work_with__models_and__sample__datasets:


Get Started
===========

:target:`doxid-workbench_docs__workbench__d_g__work_with__models_and__sample__datasets_1md_openvino_workbench_docs_workbench_dg_work_with_models_and_sample_datasets`





.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :hidden:

   ./dl-workbench-get-started/dl-workbench-import-model
   ./dl-workbench-get-started/dl-workbench-create-project
   ./dl-workbench-get-started/dl-workbench-resources

This section introduces the basics of DL Workbench workflow by walking you through the process of importing your first model, creating a project, and evaluating the initial performance. To help you get started with DL Workbench, this guide uses ``ssd_mobilenet_v2_coco`` `model <https://docs.openvinotoolkit.org/latest/omz_models_model_ssd_mobilenet_v2_coco.html>`__ for `object detection <https://machinelearningmastery.com/object-recognition-with-deep-learning/>`__ use case, trained with `TensorFlow <https://www.tensorflow.org/>`__ framework.

To start exploring DL Workbench capabilities right away, complete the following steps:

#. :ref:`Import Model <doxid-workbench_docs__workbench__d_g__select__model>`

#. :ref:`Create Project <doxid-workbench_docs__workbench__create__project>`

This guide goes step-by-step through the workflow described in the Create Project video. Watch it to learn how to get started with DL Workbench:

Get Started Video
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. list-table::

   * - .. raw:: html

           <iframe  allowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen msallowfullscreen oallowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen height="315" width="560"
           src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/gzUFYxomjn8">
           </iframe>
   * - **Get Started with the DL Workbench**. Duration: 8:27

See Also
~~~~~~~~

* :ref:`Next Step: Import Model <doxid-workbench_docs__workbench__d_g__select__model>`

Commit message:

[STAGE2] Deep Learning Workbench Overview (#160)
Ecosystem

pages/documentation/dl-workbench-overview/dl-workbench-get-started.rst, after:

.. index:: pair: page; Get Started
.. _dl_workbench__get_started:

.. meta::
   :description: Introduction to basics of Deep Learning Workbench workflow. Walkthrough thorugh the process of 
                 importing model, creating project and evaluating the initial performance.
   :keywords: Deep Learning Workbench, DL Workbench, dl workbench workflow, importing model, 
              project creation, initial performance evaluation


Get Started
===========

:target:`dl_workbench__get_started_1md_openvino_workbench_docs_workbench_dg_work_with_models_and_sample_datasets`



.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :hidden:

   ./dl-workbench-get-started/dl-workbench-import-model
   ./dl-workbench-get-started/dl-workbench-create-project
   ./dl-workbench-get-started/dl-workbench-resources

This section introduces the basics of DL Workbench workflow by walking you through the process of importing 
your first model, creating a project, and evaluating the initial performance. To help you get started 
with DL Workbench, this guide uses 
``ssd_mobilenet_v2_coco`` `model <https://docs.openvinotoolkit.org/latest/omz_models_model_ssd_mobilenet_v2_coco.html>`__ 
for `object detection <https://machinelearningmastery.com/object-recognition-with-deep-learning/>`__ use case, trained 
with `TensorFlow <https://www.tensorflow.org/>`__ framework.

To start exploring DL Workbench capabilities right away, complete the following steps:

#. :ref:`Import Model <doxid-workbench_docs__workbench__d_g__select__model>`

#. :ref:`Create Project <doxid-workbench_docs__workbench__create__project>`

This guide goes step-by-step through the workflow described in the Create Project video. Watch it to learn how to get 
started with DL Workbench:

Get Started Video
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. list-table::

   * - .. raw:: html

           <iframe  allowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen msallowfullscreen oallowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen height="315" width="560"
           src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/gzUFYxomjn8">
           </iframe>
   * - **Get Started with the DL Workbench**. Duration: 8:27

See Also
~~~~~~~~

* :ref:`Next Step: Import Model <doxid-workbench_docs__workbench__d_g__select__model>`
